these adults are on babysitting duties
the banded brothers have some tiny new
recruits
just ten days old their little pups are
very precious
today is a very special day it's their
first time out of the den and they're
taking in all the sights sounds and
smells of the outside world these pups
reveal something very unusual about
banded mongoose reproduction all of
these twelve pups are exactly the same
age but they have three different mums
between them big red
Missy B and Stella it's no coincidence
banded mongoose have a unique system of
family planning with mums able to
synchronize their breeding cycles and
time the birth of their pups to the
exact same day it gives them a huge
practical advantage when all your babies
need the same thing at the same time
child care can be shared amongst the
whole family and crucial things like den
moves coordinated around them it's a
great system as all the mob will help
protect and raise the pups sharing
babysitting duties and breast milk and
teaching the youngsters the ropes the
strength of the family is in numbers so
it's in everyone's interest to ensure
the pups survival but it's a balancing
act and depends on all the pups being
exactly the same age